---
title: Certified Penetration Testing Specialist Notes
date: 2023-03-31 11:12
categories: [notes]
tags: [Windows, Active Directory, htb, Linux]
--- 

## Network Enumeration with Nmap

Nmap is one of the most used tools by network admins and IT security specialists, it can be used to Audit the security aspects of networks, simulate penetration tests, check firewall and IDS settings and configurations, test types of possible connections, network mapping, response analysis, identify open ports, and vulnerability assessments as well. Nmap offers many different types of scans, and can basically be divided into: Host Discovery, Port Scanning, Service Enumeration and Detection, OS Detection, and scriptable interactions with the target service through the nmap scripting engine. The basic syntax for nmap is

```bash
nmap <scan types> <options> <target>
```

The TCP-SYN (`-sS`) is one of the default settings and is one of the most popular scan methods. This scan method makes it possible to scan thousands of ports per second. The TCP-SYN scan sends one packet with the SYN flag, and never completes the 3-way handshake.

-If the target responds with `SYN-ACK`, nmap detects the port as `open`

-If the packet receives an `RST` flag, it is an indication that the port is `closed`.

-If Nmap does not receive a packet back, it will display the port as `filtered`. Depending on the firewall configuration, certain packets may be dropped or ignored by the firewall.

### Host Discovery

A basic scan that can be used to search a subnet for alive hosts is

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.2.0/24 -sn -oA tnet | grep for | cut -d" " -f5
```

where `-sn` disables port scanning, and `-oA tnet` will output the results in all formats starting with the name `tnet`. We can also scan hosts from a list using the `-iL hosts.txt` option, where `hosts.txt` is a list of hosts, 1 per line. If we disable the port scan (with `-sn`), Nmap automatically will ping scan with `ICMP Echo Requests (-PE)`, where nmap will expect an `ICMP Reply` if the host is alive. We can confirm this with the `--packet-trace` option to ensure the ICMP echo requests are sent. Another way to determine why nmap has marked a host alive is with the `--reason` option.


### Host and Port Scanning

There are a total of 6 different states for scanned ports that we can obtain.

| State    | Description|
| -------- | ------- |
| Open  | This indicates that the connection to the scanned port has been established. These connections can be TCP connections, UDP datagrams as well as SCTP associations.    |
| Closed | When the port is shown as closed, the TCP protocol indicates that the packet we received back contains an RST flag. This scanning method can also be used to determine if our target is alive or not.     |
| Filtered    | Nmap cannot correctly identify whether the scanned port is open or closed because either no response is returned from the target for the port or we get an error code from the target.    |
| Unfiltered  | This state of a port only occurs during the TCP-ACK scan and means that the port is accessible, but it cannot be determined whether it is open or closed.    |
| Open\|Filtered | If we do not get a response for a specific port, Nmap will set it to that state. This indicates that a firewall or packet filter may protect the port.    |
| Closed\|Filtered    | This state only occurs in the IP ID idle scans and indicates that it was impossible to determine if the scanned port is closed or filtered by a firewall.   |

We can use the `--top-ports=x` flag to scan for x top ports, `-p 21` to scan only port 21, or `-p-` to scan all ports, or `-F` for top 100 ports (fast scan). Also `-n` can be used to disable DNS resolution.

#### Connect Scan

The nmap `TCP Connect Scan (-sT)` uses the TCP 3-way handshake to determine if a specific port on a target is open or closed. The `Connect Scan` is useful because it is the most accurate way to determine the state of a port, and it is also the most stealthy, unlike other types of scans, such as the SYN scan, the connect scan does not leave any unfinished connections or unsent packets on the target host, which makes it less likely to be detected by IDS or IPS, and is useful when you want to scan a network but don't want to disturb the services running behind it.


#### Filtered Ports

When a port is shown as filtered, it can be shown this way for several reasons, in most cases, firewalls have certain rules set to handle specific connections, The packets can either be dropped or rejected. When a packet gets dropped, nmap receives no response from our target, and marks the port as filtered. These will require further investigation later on, but for now there is no way to interact with the port.

#### Discovering Open UDP Ports

Since UDP is a stateless protocol, we do not receive any acknowledgment, consequently, the timeout is much longer, making UDP scans (`-sU`) Much slower than TCP scans. If the UDP port is open, we will only get a response if the application is configured to do so. If we get an ICMP response with `error code 3` (port unreachable) we know that the port is indeed closed.

### Saving Results

`-oN` for Normal output, `-oG` for Grepable output, and `-oX` for XML output. or `-oA` for all formats. With the XML output, we can easily create HTML reports that are useful for documentation as it presents the results in a detailed and clear way. To convert from XML to HTML we can use the tool `xsltproc` as such:

```bash
xsltproc target.xml -o target.html
```

### Service Enumeration

`-sV` can be used to enumerate versions, after a successful 3-way handshake, the server often sends a banner for identification. This serves to let the client know which service it is working with. At the Network level, this happens with a PSH flag in the TCP header. However, some services may not provide this information immediately. We can use `nc -nv ip port` to grab the banner.

An example packet capture looks like this 

```bash
18:28:07.128564 IP 10.10.14.2.59618 > 10.129.2.28.smtp: Flags [S], seq 1798872233, win 65535, options [mss 1460,nop,wscale 6,nop,nop,TS val 331260178 ecr 0,sackOK,eol], length 0

18:28:07.255151 IP 10.129.2.28.smtp > 10.10.14.2.59618: Flags [S.], seq 1130574379, ack 1798872234, win 65160, options [mss 1460,sackOK,TS val 1800383922 ecr 331260178,nop,wscale 7], length 0

18:28:07.255281 IP 10.10.14.2.59618 > 10.129.2.28.smtp: Flags [.], ack 1, win 2058, options [nop,nop,TS val 331260304 ecr 1800383922], length 0

18:28:07.319306 IP 10.129.2.28.smtp > 10.10.14.2.59618: Flags [P.], seq 1:36, ack 1, win 510, options [nop,nop,TS val 1800383985 ecr 331260304], length 35: SMTP: 220 inlane ESMTP Postfix (Ubuntu)

18:28:07.319426 IP 10.10.14.2.59618 > 10.129.2.28.smtp: Flags [.], ack 36, win 2058, options [nop,nop,TS val 331260368 ecr 1800383985], length 0
```

Where `S` is SYN, `S.` is SYN-ACK, `.` is ACK, `P.` is PSH-ACK, and `.` ACK confirms the receipt of the data at the end.

### Nmap Scripting Engine

There are a total of 14 categories of scripts

| Category    | Description|
| -------- | ------- |
| Auth    |     Determination of authentication credentials.     | 
| Broadcast|  Scripts, which are used for host discovery by broadcasting and the discovered hosts, can be automatically added to the remaining scans.        | 
| brute  |    Executes scripts that try to log in to the respective service by brute-forcing with credentials.      | 
| default  |    Default scripts executed by using the -sC option.      | 
| discovery	 |    Evaluation of accessible services.      | 
| dos |      These scripts are used to check services for denial of service vulnerabilities and are used less as it harms the services.    | 
| exploit |    This category of scripts tries to exploit known vulnerabilities for the scanned port.      | 
| external |   Scripts that use external services for further processing.       | 
| fuzzer   |    This uses scripts to identify vulnerabilities and unexpected packet handling by sending different fields, which can take much time.      | 
| intrusive  |   Intrusive scripts that could negatively affect the target system.       | 
| malware   |    Checks if some malware infects the target system.      | 
|  safe  |    Defensive scripts that do not perform intrusive and destructive access.      | 
| version  |    Extension for service detection.      | 
| vuln  |   Identification of specific vulnerabilities.       | 

There are several way to define the desired scripts in nmap

#### Default Scripts

```bash
sudo nmap <target> -sC
```

#### Specific Scripts Category

```bash
sudo nmap <target> --script <category>
```

#### Defined Scripts

```bash
sudo nmap <target> --script <script-name>,<script-name>,...
```

#### Nmap Aggressive scan

```bash
sudo nmap <ip> -p <port> -A
```

`-A` will perform service detection, OS detection, traceroute, and uses default scripts to scan the target

#### Vulnerability Assessment

```bash
sudo nmap <port> -p <ip> -sV --script vuln
```

These scripts interact with the service and find out more information about their versions and check various databases to see if there are known vulnerabilities.

### Performance

There are many options for telling Nmap how fast (`-T <1-5>`), with which frequency (`--min-parallelism <number>`), which timeouts (`--max-rtt-timeout <time>`) the test packets should have, how many packets should be sent simultaneously (`--min-rate <number>`), and with the number of retries (`--max-retries <number>`) for the scanned ports that the targets should be scanned.

#### Timeouts

WHen nmap sends a packet, it takes some time (`RTT=Round Trip Time`) to receive a response from the scanned port. Generally nmap starts with a high timeout of 100ms. 1 way to speed up a scan is by:

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.2.0/24 -F --initial-rtt-timeout 50ms --max-rtt-timeout 100ms
```

Were `--initial-rtt-timeout 50ms` sets the specified time value as initial RTT timeout, and `--max-rtt-timeout 100ms` sets the specified time value as maximum RTT timeout. However, too short of a time period may cause us to miss hosts in the output, so this exact command is not recommended.

#### Max Retries

Another way to increase the scans' speed is to specify the retry rate. The default value is 10 but we can reduce this as such, which again can negatively impact the results:

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.2.0/24 -F --max-retries 0
```

#### Rates

During an engagement, we might get whitelisted, and the network might have ample bandwidth to support such scanning, we can really speed things up with:

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.2.0/24 -F -oN tnet.minrate300 --min-rate 300
```

#### Timing

nmap offers 6 different timing templates `-T <0-5>` for us to use. The higher the value, the more aggressive the scan. We can experience negative effects if we scan too fast, like missing hosts or getting picked up/blocked by security systems. The default timing nmap uses is `-T 3`.

- -T 0 / -T Paranoid

- -T 1 / -T Sneaky

- -T 2 / -T Polite

- -T 3 / -T Normal

- -T 4 / Aggressive

- -T 5 / Insane

### Firewall and IDS/IDP Evasion

Firewalls are software components that monitor network traffic between the firewall and incoming data connections, and decides how to handle the connection based on pre-defined rules that have been set. Similarly, an IDS will scan the network for potential attacks, analyze them, and report any detected attacks. An IPS compliments an IDS by taking specific defensive measures, should an attack be detected. The analysis of such attacks is based on pattern matching and signatures.

#### Determine Firewalls and Their Rules

When a port is shown as filtered, it can have several reasons. In most cases, firewalls have certain rules set to handle specific connections. The packets can either be `dropped` or `rejected`. `dropped` packets are ignored, and no response is returned from the host. On the other hand, `rejected` packets are returned with an `RST` flag. These packets contain different types of `ICMP error codes`, or contain nothing at all. Such errors can be:

- Net Unreachable

- Net Prohibited

- Host Unreachable

- Host Prohibited

- Port Unreachable

- Port Prohibited

Nmap's TCP ACK (`-sA`) method is much harder to filter for firewalls and IDS/IPS systems compared to regular SYN (`-sS`) or (`-sT`) because they send a TCP packet with only the `ACK` flag. Packets with the `ACK` flag are usually passed by the firewall because it can not determine whether the connection was first established from the external or the internal network.

#### Detect IDS/IPS

Detection of IDS/IPS is much more difficult because these are passive traffic monitoring systems. If you get picked up by an IDS/IPS, proceeding with the test will be much more difficult, as your ISP may be notified and your internet will be revoked, or you may just be blocked from the target environment. Ideally, you would have access to several VPS's with different IPs to determine whether such systems are on the target network during a pentest, if one gets blocked, you would need to use the others in a more careful and stealthy manner.


#### Decoys

There are cases in which admins block specific subnets from different regions. This prevents any access to the target network. Another example is if an IPS exists and blocks us. For this reason, the Decoy Scanning Method (`-D`) is the right choice. With this method, nmap generates various random IP addresses inserted into the IP header to disguise the origin of the packet sent. It is critical that the decoys must be alive, otherwise the service on the target may be unreachable due to SYN-flooding security mechanisms. 

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.2.28 -p 80 -sS -D RND:5
```

The `RND:5` generates five random IP addresses that indicates the source IP the connection comes from.

We can also use `-S` to specify a source IP, because it may be possible that specific subnets are blocked from accessing the resource, we can try our luck with another:

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.2.28 -n -Pn -p 445 -O -S 10.129.2.200 -e tun0
```

#### DNS Proxying

DNS queries are traditionally made over UDP port 53, however due to IPv6 and DNSSEC expansions, many DNS requests are made over TCP port 53 now. Nmap gives us a way to specify DNS servers ourselves (`--dns-server <ns>,<ns>`). This method could be important to us if we are in a DMZ. The company's DNS servers are usually more trusted than online ones, so for example we could use them to interact with the hosts of the internal network. We could make TCP port 53 our source port (`--source-port`) for our scans. If an admin uses the firewall to control this port and does not filter IDS/IPS properly, our TCP packets will be trusted and passed through.

##### Connect to the Filtered Port

If we discover that the firewall allows traffic from TCP port 53, we can use netcat to establish a connection as such

```bash
ncat -nv --source-port 53 <ip> <port>
```

## Footprinting 

### FTP 

Client and Server establish control channel through `TCP port 21`. The client sends commands to the server, and the server responds status codes, then both the client and server can establish a data channel over `TCP port 20`, which is used exclusively for data transmission.

#### TFTP 

Trivial File Transfer Protocol is simpler than FTP and performs file transfers between client and server processes, however it does not provide user authentication and other features supported by FTP. While FTP uses TCP, TFTP uses UDP, making it unreliable for data transfers. Here are a few commands in TFTP:

| Commands    | Description|
| -------- | ------- |
| Connect | Sets the remote host, and optionally the port, for file transfers |
| Get | Transfers a file or set of files from the remote host to the local host|
|  Put | Transfers a file or set of files from the local host onto the remote host|
|Quit | exits TFTP|
|Status | Shows the current status, like transfer mode (ascii or binary), connection status, time-out value, and so on|
|Verbose| Turns verbose mode on, which displays additional information| 

Unlike FTP, TFTP does not have a directory listing functionality

#### Default Configuration of vsFTPd

One of the most used FTP servers in linux-based distros is `vsFTPd`. The default config can be found in `/etc/vsftpd.conf`

| Setting    | Description|
| -------- | ------- |
| listen=NO | Run from inetd or as a standalone daemon? |
| listen_ipv6=YES | Listen on IPv6 ? |
|anonymous_enable=NO | Enable Anonymous access? |
|dirmessage_enable=YES | Display active directory messages when users go into certain directories? |
| use_localtime=YES | 	Use local time? |
| xferlog_enable=YES | Activate logging of uploads/downloads? |
| connect_from_port_20=YES | 	Connect from port 20? |
| secure_chroot_dir=/var/run/vsftpd/empty | 	Name of an empty directory|
|pam_service_name=vsftpd| This string is the name of the PAM service vsftpd will use.|
| rsa_cert_file=/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem | The last three options specify the location of the RSA certificate to use for SSL encrypted connections. |
| rsa_private_key_file=/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key| |
| ssl_enable=NO | |

There is also a file `/etc/ftpusers` that is used to deny certain users access to FTP service. Users in this file are `not` allowed to log in to the FTP service.

##### Dangerous Settings

One of the most common things to test for when testing FTP is anonmyous access, these settings look like this:

| Setting    | Description|
| -------- | ------- |
|anonymous_enable=YES | Allowing anonymous login?|
|anon_upload_enable=YES| Allowing anonymous to upload files?|
|anon_mkdir_write_enable=YES| Allowing anonymous to create new directories?|
|no_anon_password=YES|	Do not ask anonymous for password?|
|anon_root=/home/username/ftp| Directory for anonymous.|
|write_enable=YES| Allow the usage of FTP commands: STOR, DELE, RNFR, RNTO, MKD, RMD, APPE, and SITE? |

#### Logging in Anonymously

```bash
ftp anonymous@<ip address>
```

#### Useful Commands and Settings

A useful setting for protecting FTP is `hide_ids=YES`, which means the UID and GUID representation of the service will be overwritten, making it difficult for us to see the rights that these files have. This prevents local usernames from being revealed. 

Another useful setting is `ls_recurse_enabled=YES`, if this is enabled we can do `ls -R` which will give us a better overview of the FTP directory structure.

We can download a file with `Get File\ Name.txt` where the name of the file is `File Name.txt`, the \ is used to escape the `space`. 

We can also use wget to download all files recursively as such:

```bash
wget -m --no-passive ftp://anonymous:anonymous@<ip address?
```

Or once logged in, we can `prompt OFF`, `recurse ON` and `mget *`

We can Upload files with the `put` command, like this `put <filename>.ext` 

#### Footprinting FTP

We can start by updating the nse database as such

```bash
sudo nmap --script-updatedb
```

All the NSE scripts are generally located in `/usr/share/nmap/scripts/`, or we can find them with this simple command

```bash
find / -type f -name ftp* 2>/dev/null | grep scripts
```

Which will return all nmap scripts that start with ftp.

#### Service Interaction

```bash
nc -nv <ip> 21
```

```bash
telnet <ip> 21
```

It is a little different if the FTP server runs with TLS/SSL encryption, as we need a client that can handle that. We can use `openssl` as such.

```bash
openssl s_client -connect <ip>:21 -starttls ftp
```

### SMB

Useful commands for enumerating SMB are:

```bash
#anonymously list shares
smbclient -L -N \\<IP/FQDN>\ 

and 
#connect to a share anonymously
smbclient -N \\<IP/FQDN>\<share>
```

We can also use rpcclient :

```bash
rpcclient -U "" <ip>
```

Then some usual commands are, 

`srvinfo`-> Server information.

`enumdomains`-> Enumerate all domains that are deployed in the network.

`querydominfo`-> Provides domain, server, and user information of deployed domains.

`netshareenumall`-> Enumerates all available shares.

`netsharegetinfo <share>`-> Provides information about a specific share.

`enumdomusers`-> Enumerates all domain users.

`queryuser <RID>`-> Provides information about a specific user.

We can do `enumdomusers`, grab the user and group rids, then `queryuser <rid>` or querygroup `rid`

We can also use a tool from impacket `samrdump.py` to bruteforce RIDS as such:

```bash
samrdump.py <ip>
```

Another useful tool is enum4linux, which we can use as

```bash
./enum4linux-ng <ip> -A
```

### NFS

Network File System has the same purpose as SMB, but it is only used between Linux and Unix systems, unlike SMB/Samba which are cross compatible with Windows/AD and Linux.

We can footprint the service with nmap

```bash
sudo nmap <ip> -p111,2049 -sC -sV
```

the rpcinfo NSE script retrieves a list of all currently running RPC services, their names and description, and the ports they use. Nmap also has some NSE scripts that we can run on NFS as such:

```bash
sudo nmap --script nfs* <ip> -sV -p111,2049
```

to show available NFS shares:

```bash
showmount -e 10.129.14.128
```

And then to mount the share

```bash
mkdir target-NFS
sudo mount -t nfs <ip>:/ ./target-NFS/ -o nolock
cd target-NFS
tree .
```

To unmount

```bash
cd ..
sudo umount ./target-NFS
```

### DNS

There are several types of DNS servers:

`DNS Root Server`- The root servers of the DNS are responsible for the top-level domains (TLD). As the last instance, they are only requested if the name server does not respond. Thus, a root server is a central interface between users and content on the Internet, as it links domain and IP address. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) coordinates the work of the root name servers. There are 13 such root servers around the globe.

`Authoritative Nameserver`- Authoritative name servers hold authority for a particular zone. They only answer queries from their area of responsibility, and their information is binding. If an authoritative name server cannot answer a client's query, the root name server takes over at that point.

`Non-authoritative Nameserver`- Non-authoritative name servers are not responsible for a particular DNS zone. Instead, they collect information on specific DNS zones themselves, which is done using recursive or iterative DNS querying.

`Caching DNS Server`- Caching DNS servers cache information from other name servers for a specified period. The authoritative name server determines the duration of this storage.

`Forwarding Server`- Forwarding servers perform only one function: they forward DNS queries to another DNS server.

`Resolver`- Resolvers are not authoritative DNS servers but perform name resolution locally in the computer or router.


There are also different DNS records used for DNS queries:

`A`- Returns an IPv4 address of the requested domain as a result.

`AAAA`-Returns an IPv6 address of the requested domain.

`MX`-Returns the responsible mail servers as a result.

`NS`-Returns the DNS servers (nameservers) of the domain.

`TXT`-This record can contain various information. The all-rounder can be used, e.g., to validate the Google Search Console or validate SSL certificates. In addition, SPF and DMARC entries are set to validate mail traffic and protect it from spam.

`CNAME`-This record serves as an alias. If the domain www.hackthebox.eu should point to the same IP, and we create an A record for one and a CNAME record for the other.

`PTR`- The PTR record works the other way around (reverse lookup). It converts IP addresses into valid domain names.

`SOA`- Provides information about the corresponding DNS zone and email address of the administrative contact.

#### Footprinting DNS

NS Query

```bash
dig ns <domain>.com @<dns IP>
```

Sometimes it is possible to query a DNS server's version using a class CHAOS type query and type TXT. this entry must exist on the DNS server to work:

```bash
dig CH TXT version.bind <dns ip>
```

We can use the `ANY` to view all avaialbe records, which causes the service to disclose all available entries that it can share.

```bash
dig any <domain>.com @<dns ip>
```

`Zone Transfer` refers to the transfer of zones to another server in DNS, which usually happens over TCP port 53. This is abbreviated `Asynchronous Full Transfer Zone (AXFR)`.

```bash
dig axfr <domain>.com @<dns ip>
```

or for internal

```bash
dig axfr internal.<domain>.com @<dns-ip>
```

We can also use a for loop in bash to query for individual `A` records.

```bash
for sub in $(cat /opt/useful/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-110000.txt);do dig $sub.inlanefreight.htb @10.129.14.128 | grep -v ';\|SOA' | sed -r '/^\s*$/d' | grep $sub | tee -a subdomains.txt;done
```

Another tool that can do this is `DNSenum`

```bash
dnsenum --dnsserver <dns-ip> --enum -p 0 -s 0 -o subdomains.txt -f /opt/useful/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-110000.txt <target domain>.com
```

### SMPT

To interact with SMTP, we can use `telnet` to initialize a TCP connection.

```bash
telnet <ip>

Helo mail1.inlanefreight.htb
```

Depending how the server is configured, we can use the `VRFY` command to enumerate users

```bash
telnet <ip> 25

VRFY root
```

To send an email

```bash
telnet <ip> 25

EHLO inlanefreight.htb

MAIL FROM: <goober@goober.htb>

RCPT TO: <goober2@goober.htb> NOTIFY=success,failure

DATA

QUIT
```

#### Footprinting SMPT

```bash
sudo nmap <ip> -sC -sV -p25
```

We can also use NSE's `smtp-open-relay` script to identify if the target server can be used as an open relay.

```bash
sudo nmap <ip> -p25 --script smtp-open-relay
```

